README.md, before:

# Designo - Serverless

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [The challenge](#the-challenge)
  - [Links](#links)
- [Project and Insights](#process-and-insights)
  - [Built with](#built-with)
  - [Project Insights](#project-insights)
- [Author](#author)

## Overview

### The challenge

The reason for creating this serverless architecture on AWS was to find a suitable way to combine multiple data sources into a single source of truth.

The architecture should:

- Allow frontend users to access information from multiple DynamoDB instances
- Pull only necessary data from sources on each frontend's request to the backend
- Allow secure requests to access the API endpoint on the frontend.

### Links

Links to website and frontend of architecture coming soon!

## Process and Insights

### Built with

- [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com)
  - [AppSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/)
  - [CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/index.html)
  - [DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
  - [Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html)
  - [S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/s3/index.html)
- [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/)
- [Serverless](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Velocity Template Language](https://velocity.apache.org/engine/1.7/vtl-reference.html)

### Project and Insights

The backend of this application was meant for a web agency frontend that would be built with React utilizing TypeScript. The data structures are not uniform accross separate data sources, and I decided that GraphQL would be the best approach to handle this issue. This allows for simplified API development using AppSync by pulling necessary data into a single source of truth. Resolvers can be setup to avoid over-fetching and under-fetching the necessary data into the frontend of the application on each call.

Looking at this example, you can define the types for your data structure:

```graphql
type Design {
  DesignID: String!
  name: String!
  slug: String!
  images: designImages!
  header: String!
}

type designImages {
  desktop: String!
  desktopLarge: String
  tablet: String!
  mobile: String!
}

type PaginatedDesigns {
  design: [Design!]!
  nextToken: String
}

extend type Query {
  design(DesignID: String!): Design
  designs(count: Int, nextToken: String): PaginatedDesigns!
}
```

The schema is then attached to resolvers that are used in AWS AppSync. Here is an example of a request and response to call a single design item:

Request:

```vtl
{
  "version": "2018-05-29",
  "operation": "GetItem",
  "key": {
    "DesignID":  $util.dynamodb.toDynamoDBJson($context.arguments.DesignID),
  },
  "consistentRead": true
}
```

Response:

```vtl
#if($context.result.DesignID)
  $util.toJson($context.result)
#else
  $util.error("Item not found with the given DesignID")
#end
```

The queries to a DynamoDB Table can be tested in AppSync which may look similar to this for one item:

```graphql
query getDesign {
  design(DesignID: "design-1") {
    header
    images {
      desktop
      desktopLarge
      mobile
      tablet
    }
    name
    slug
  }
}
```

or multiple items:

```graphql
query getDesigns {
  designs(count: 3) {
    design {
      DesignID
      header
      images {
        desktop
        desktopLarge
        mobile
        tablet
      }
      name
      slug
    }
  }
}
```

Here's an example of the data that is stored in a DynamoDB Table:

```typescript
import { IDesign } from "../interfaces/Design";

const designOne: IDesign = {
  TableName: "DesignoDesignsTable",
  Item: {
    DesignID: "design-1",
    name: "web design",
    slug: "/web-design",
    images: {
      desktop: "https://designo-image-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/assets/home/desktop/image-web-design-small.jpg",
      desktopLarge: "https://designo-image-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/assets/home/desktop/image-web-design-large.jpg",
      tablet: "https://designo-image-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/assets/home/tablet/image-web-design.jpg",
      mobile: "https://designo-image-bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/assets/home/mobile/image-web-design.jpg",
    },
    header: "We build websites that serve as powerful marketing tools and bring memorable brand experiences.",
  },
};
```

It's important to note in this example, a sort key was not necessary due to the simple design pattern. If you want to see an example of a data structure using a SortKey, checkout the productData.ts file in the tempData folder. The URLs contain information about the location of the images which point to a folder in an S3 bucket.

Check out the serverless.yml file for more information on the setup of the serverless architecture. The architecture is deployed through CloudFormation on AWS. This allows you to setup and update the entire stack from one place instead of building each part of the infrastructure individually within the cloud.

## Author

- Website - [Jason Nembhard](https://www.jasonnembhard.com)

Commit message:

Wrote test cases for Lambda functions, setup docker containter for local testing, and created dynamoClientConfig file for development and production decision logic

README.md, after:

# Designo - Serverless

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [The challenge](#the-challenge)
  - [Links](#links)
- [Project and Insights](#process-and-insights)
  - [Built with](#built-with)
  - [Project Insights](#project-insights)
- [Author](#author)

## Overview

### The challenge

The reason for creating this serverless architecture on AWS was to find a suitable way to combine multiple data sources into a single source of truth.

The architecture should:

- Allow frontend users to access information from multiple DynamoDB instances
- Pull only necessary data from sources on each frontend's request to the backend
- Allow secure requests to access the API endpoint on the frontend.

### Links

Links to website and frontend of architecture coming soon!

## Process and Insights

### Built with

- [Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com)
  - [AppSync](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/)
  - [CloudFront](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/index.html)
  - [CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/index.html)
  - [DynamoDB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/)
  - [Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html)
  - [S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/s3/index.html)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - For DynamoDB local testing environment
- [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) - Test Cases
- [Serverless](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Velocity Template Language](https://velocity.apache.org/engine/1.7/vtl-reference.html)

### Project and Insights

The backend of this application was meant for a web agency frontend that would be built with React utilizing TypeScript. The data structures are not uniform across separate data sources, and I decided that GraphQL would be the best approach to handle this issue. This allows for simplified API development using AppSync by pulling necessary data into a single source of truth. Resolvers can be setup to avoid over-fetching and under-fetching the necessary data into the frontend of the application on each call.

Looking at this example, you can define the types for your data structure:

```graphql
type Design {
  DesignID: String!
  name: String!
  slug: String!
  images: designImages!
  header: String!
}

type designImages {
  desktop: String!
  desktopLarge: String
  tablet: String!
  mobile: String!
}

type PaginatedDesigns {
  design: [Design!]!
  nextToken: String
}

extend type Query {
  design(DesignID: String!): Design
  designs(count: Int, nextToken: String): PaginatedDesigns!
}
```

The schema is then attached to resolvers that are used in AWS AppSync. Here is an example of a request and response to call a single design item:

Request:

```vtl
{
  "version": "2018-05-29",
  "operation": "GetItem",
  "key": {
    "DesignID":  $util.dynamodb.toDynamoDBJson($context.arguments.DesignID),
  },
  "consistentRead": true
}
```

Response:

```vtl
#if($context.result.DesignID)
  $util.toJson($context.result)
#else
  $util.error("Item not found with the given DesignID")
#end
```

The queries to a DynamoDB Table can be tested in AppSync which may look similar to this for one item:

```graphql
query getDesign {
  design(DesignID: "design-1") {
    header
    images {
      desktop
      desktopLarge
      mobile
      tablet
    }
    name
    slug
  }
}
```

or multiple items:

```graphql
query getDesigns {
  designs(count: 3) {
    design {
      DesignID
      header
      images {
        desktop
        desktopLarge
        mobile
        tablet
      }
      name
      slug
    }
  }
}
```

Here's an example of the data that is stored in a DynamoDB Table:

```typescript
import { IDesign } from "../interfaces/Design";

const designOne: IDesign = {
  TableName: "DesignoDesignsTable",
  Item: {
    DesignID: "design-1",
    name: "web design",
    slug: "/web-design",
    images: {
      desktop: "assets/home/desktop/image-web-design-small.jpg",
      desktopLarge: "assets/home/desktop/image-web-design-large.jpg",
      tablet: "assets/home/tablet/image-web-design.jpg",
      mobile: "assets/home/mobile/image-web-design.jpg",
    },
    header: "We build websites that serve as powerful marketing tools and bring memorable brand experiences.",
  },
};
```

It's important to note in this example, a sort key was not necessary due to the simple design pattern. If you want to see an example of a data structure using a SortKey, checkout the productData.ts file in the tempData folder. The URLs contain information about the location of the images which point to a folder in an S3 bucket.

Check out the serverless.yml file for more information on the setup of the serverless architecture. The architecture is deployed through CloudFormation on AWS. This allows you to setup and update the entire stack from one place instead of building each part of the infrastructure individually within the cloud.

## Author

- Website - [Jason Nembhard](https://www.jasonnembhard.com)
